In this video we'll take a look at Update Manager and vse fair 6.5 and in my lab environment here I've
actually deployed the recentre server appliance which comes with Update Manager built right in.
So I'm going to start by going to hosts and Klosters and here you can see I've won ESX I host that is
currently being managed by this vse center server.
And when we go to our ESX host we have a series of tabs here on the right.
And one of those tabs is the update manager tab.
And so here we can see the status of update manager as it relates to this specific host.
I can click on the go to admin view on and manage update manager as a whole.
Right so that's what I'm going to do here.
So I'm going to click on manage.
And here we can see all of the settings for Update Manager.
Right.
Like for example where are we going to store the patches for ESX II hosts.
We can modify our download settings like for example where are we going to download new patches and
updates and do we want to edit these download sources and add additional downloads sources for maybe
third party solutions.
How often do we want to download new patches.
So do we want to enable a scheduled download and you can see here the next time that my patch downloads
are going to run is it 4:29 but we can change those scheduling options if we want to.
We can also set up our notification checks like how often is Update Manager going to check for recalled
patches or that's what notification checks are.
And then we can change some other settings like our VM settings do we want a snapshot VM prior to remediation
so that we can roll back.
Do we want to automatically turn off.
Distributed power management.
Do we want to turn off high availability.
Mission Control where we've got all these different cluster settings that we can modify as well.
And here we can see the current host baseline.
And these are a couple of baselines that come built right in the noncritical host patches and the critical
hosta patches.
So what I want to do right now is download the very latest patches for both of these baselines.
I can see right now they have no content.
And so I want to go ahead and download all of the latest patches for both of these dynamic baselines.
That way I have them and now I can go ahead and actually run these patches against my ESX host.
So I'm going to go back to this download settings screen and I'm going to click on the download now
button and allow these baselines these dynamic baselines to get updated in that way will know we have
all of the latest patches here.
I'm just going to pin this and unpinned this to give myself a little bit more space to work with and
that I can look at recent tasks and monitor the progress of this patch and definition's download.
So I'm going to pause my recording for a moment while this is completing.
OK so I've just resumed my recording and now we can see here that I have a number of noncritical and
critical patches.
So my patch definition download worked and I was able to update these two baselines.
So I'm going to go back to the hosts and cluster screen and from there I'm going to go ahead to this
ESX I host and I'm going to attach a baseline to it so I'll just click on the attached baseline button
and I'll go ahead and attach the critical and non-critical host patches baselines to this ESX I host
and then I'm going to go ahead and scan for updates.
So what we've basically done as I've said you know for these two hosts we want to figure out if there
are patches included in these baselines that these hosts need.
Right so we're going to attach the baselines to the hosts and then we're actually going to scan the
ESX host to see which of these patches are required for this particular ESX host and what to expect
we'll see.
Here is the compliance status will come back as not compliant meaning there are some patches that need
to be installed on this ESX host.
So I've got a little bit of a problem here it's saying the host cannot download files from the update
manager or patch store so there must be something wrong with the network connectivity here between my
ESX I host and the patch store so I'm going to actually troubleshoot that issue and when I come back
to the recording here I'll explain what I did to fix it.
OK.
So as it turned out my DNS server was down and I'll definitely do it because of the DNS server isn't
working.
The ESX I host will not be able to resolve this address.
Right here we have an address defined for a Visa Center.
And if my DNS server isn't working that address is going to be unresolvable.
So I just booted my DNS server back up and now I'm going to try to scan for updates one more time just
to make sure that it actually works and still presenting that error to me here.
I'll just go ahead and hit OK and we'll give it a moment and hopefully now that the DNS server is back
up and running this will work OK and we're all set.
It's completed.
So we have now scanned for remediation.
And as you can actually see I've installed the latest version of ESX eye on this host.
So it's actually compliant with all the latest patches.
Right.
If I go to the summary of the host I can see the build number here and we are on the current build at
the moment.
So that's what we would expect to see with Update Manager if we're scanning against a dynamic baseline
like this and the hosts are already up to date.
Now that being said I do want to actually remediate something during the course of this video.
So let's walk through another situation in which we might use Update Manager Okay.
So now what I want to actually do at this point is go back to my hosts and Klosters veel And what I'm
going to do is actually go ahead and import a virtual machine.
Right.
And the reason I'm going to do this is because of the fact that you know we don't have to apply any
patches to this host but host aren't the only place where we can use update manager to apply patches.
OK so here we have an older virtual machine that's actually an old version of virtual hardware and so
I'm going to go ahead and attach a baseline to it and I'm going to upgrade the virtual machine hardware
to the latest version so that it will match the hardware version of the ESX I host and then I'm going
to go ahead and scan this VM for updates.
I'll go ahead and just ignore VM more tools and virtual appliance and I'm just going to scan it for
VM hardware updates and see if it could use an update.
And here's the status that I expected to see.
Right.
It's noncompliant.
The current version of the virgin machine is 11.
The target version is 13.
So I'm going to go ahead and click on and remediate and resolve this issue.
I get this virtual machine upgraded to the latest version of virtual hardware and if I want to I could
run it right away.
I could schedule that to happen later on tonight.
I'm going to go ahead and let it happen right away.
I could take a snapshot of the virtual machine.
I'm not going to do this in this case.
But the main recommendation I would have for you here is if you do decide to take a snapshot set this
threshold to automatically delete the snapshot.
Now you don't want to accidentally leave old snapshots hanging out.
So I'm going to go ahead and leave that at the saying I don't want to take a snapshot there and I'll
finish and I'll allow update manager to actually go ahead and remediate this virtual machine and it's
done right.
So now my virtual machine is on a hardware version 13 which was the target version.
So I've upgraded this VM to the latest virtual hardware.